Specified conventions for core packages structure and namespaces (#1094)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/community_resources/package_structure.md

# Package and bundle structure, namespaces

**Target audience**: Symfony backend Ibexa Community Contributors and Ibexa Engineers.

This specification **IS NOT meant** for 3rd party packages or projects.

What needs to be emphasised is that the conventions described here are meant to be applied as an evolution.
It means that while the existing code won't be changed at once (or at all in some cases), the new code
needs to follow the rules outlined here.

## Root PHP namespace

> eZ Platform by Ibexa core PHP code needs to be defined in a namespace with the following prefix:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Define eZ Platform by Ibexa core PHP code in a namespace with the following prefix:
```

```php
namespace Ibexa\Platform;
```

> A package which groups some DXP features MAY use an additional prefix, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A package which groups some DXP features can use an additional prefix, for example:
```

```php
namespace Ibexa\Platform\Commerce;
```

```php
namespace Ibexa\Platform\Personalization;
```

## Packages

> The general package directory structure and corresponding PHP namespace mapping is as follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The general package directory structure and corresponding PHP namespace mapping are:

```

```
.
+-- src
|   +-- bundle (`Ibexa\Platform\Bundle\<PackageName>`)
|   +-- contracts (`Ibexa\Platform\Contracts\<PackageName>`)
|   +-- lib (`Ibexa\Platform\<PackageName>`)
+-- tests
|   +-- bundle (`Ibexa\Platform\Tests\Bundle\<PackageName>`)
|   +-- integration (`Ibexa\Platform\Tests\Integration\<PackageName>`)
|   +-- lib (`Ibexa\Platform\Tests\<PackageName>`)
```

> If a package does not contain some of the described parts, those directories MAY BE skipped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a package does not contain some of the described parts, you can skip those directories.
```

### Implementation (lib)

> The **`src/lib`** directory and its corresponding namespace:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `src/lib` directory and its corresponding namespace are:

```

```php
namespace Ibexa\Platform\<PackageName>;
```

> is meant for internal implementation not tied to the Symfony Framework.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This directory is meant for internal implementation not tied to the Symfony Framework.

```

> The **`src/lib`** directory and its corresponding namespace:
> ```php
> namespace Ibexa\Platform\<PackageName>;
> ```
> is meant for internal implementation not tied to the Symfony Framework.

Author: Rephrased after internal sync:
```suggestion
The `src/lib` directory and its corresponding `Ibexa\Platform\<PackageName>` namespace are meant for internal implementation not tied to the Symfony Framework.
```

Examples:

```php
namespace Ibexa\Platform\Search;
```

```php
namespace Ibexa\Platform\Commerce\Shop;
```

### Bundles

> The bundle class definition in the **`src/bundle`** directory MUST BE as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The bundle class definition in the `src/bundle` directory must be:
```

```php
namespace Ibexa\Platform\Bundle\<PackageName>;

class IbexaPlatform[ProductGroup]<PackageName>Bundle // ...
```

> Examples:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Examples:

```

```php
namespace Ibexa\Platform\Bundle\Search;

class IbexaPlatformSearchBundle // ...
```

```php
namespace Ibexa\Platform\Bundle\Commerce\Shop;

class IbexaPlatformCommerceShopBundle // ...
```

### Contracts

> A package MAY introduce a namespace for contracts, to be consumed by 1st and 3rd party packages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A package may introduce a namespace for contracts, to be consumed by first and third party packages
```

> and projects, which MUST be prefixed as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and projects, which must be prefixed as:
```

```php
namespace Ibexa\Platform\Contracts;
```

Examples:

```php
namespace Ibexa\Platform\Contracts\Kernel;
```

```php
namespace Ibexa\Platform\Contracts\SiteFactory;
```

```php
namespace Ibexa\Platform\Contracts\Commerce\Shop;
```

> That namespace needs to be mapped to the **`src/contracts`** directory of a package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That namespace needs to be mapped to the `src/contracts` directory of a package.

```

# Package and bundle structure, namespaces

**Target audience**: Symfony backend Ibexa Community Contributors and Ibexa Engineers.

This specification **IS NOT meant** for 3rd party packages or projects.

What needs to be emphasised is that the conventions described here are meant to be applied as an evolution.
It means that while the existing code won't be changed at once (or at all in some cases), the new code
needs to follow the rules outlined here.

## Root PHP namespace

> eZ Platform by Ibexa core PHP code needs to be defined in a namespace with the following prefix:

Author: ```suggestion
Ibexa core PHP code needs to be defined in a namespace with the following prefix:
```

```php

> namespace Ibexa\Platform;

Author: ```suggestion
namespace Ibexa;
```

```

> 

Author: ```suggestion

Additionally each Product from Ibexa DXP should define its own prefix, e.g:
* `namespace Ibexa\Platform;`
* `namespace Ibexa\Commerce;`
* `namespace Ibexa\Personalization;`

```

## Packages

The general package directory structure and corresponding PHP namespace mapping is as follows.
```
.
+-- src
|   +-- bundle (`Ibexa\Platform\Bundle\<PackageName>Bundle`)
|   +-- contracts (`Ibexa\Platform\Contracts\<PackageName>`)
|   +-- lib (`Ibexa\Platform\<PackageName>`)
+-- tests
|   +-- bundle (`Ibexa\Platform\Tests\Bundle\<PackageName>Bundle`)
|   +-- integration (`Ibexa\Platform\Tests\Integration\<PackageName>`)
|   +-- lib (`Ibexa\Platform\Tests\<PackageName>`)
```

If a package does not contain some of the described parts, te directories MAY BE skipped.

### Implementation (lib)

The **`src/lib`** directory and its corresponding namespace:
```php
namespace Ibexa\Platform\<PackageName>;
```
is meant for internal implementation not tied to the Symfony Framework.

Example:

```php
namespace Ibexa\Platform\Search;
```

> 
> A package which groups some DXP features MAY use an additional prefix, for example:

Author: Already mentioned before, so this sentence is redundant:
```suggestion
```

```php

> namespace Ibexa\Platform\Commerce\Shop;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
namespace Ibexa\Commerce\Shop;
```
@ezsystems/php-dev-team

```

### Bundles

The bundle class definition in the **`src/bundle`** directory MUST BE as follows:

```php
namespace Ibexa\Platform\Bundle\<PackageName>Bundle;

> class <PackageName>Bundle // ...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
class Ibexa<ProductName><PackageName>Bundle // ...
```

```

Example:
```php
namespace Ibexa\Platform\Bundle\SearchBundle;

> class SearchBundle // ...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
class IbexaPlatformSearchBundle // ...
```

As that name is also used in twig templates, and using just `@Search` could lead to some aliases problem, and it is not clear at first glance from where given resource comes from.

Author: > As that name is also used in twig templates, and using just `@Search` could lead to some aliases problem, and it is not clear at first glance from where given resource comes from.

This is very good point, thanks!
